docs/setup/quickstart.md, before:

---
title: "Snikket quick-start guide"
subtitle: "How to set up a self-hosted Snikket instance"
linktitle: "Quick-start"
description: "This guide will help you set up your self-hosted Snikket instance."
date: 2022-01-25T12:32:02Z
weight: 10
---

{{< lead >}}
Hi, welcome! In this guide we will help you set up your own instance of [Snikket](/service/). Once it is set up,
you will be able to invite others to join you using the [Snikket app](/app/) and chat over your own
private messaging server!
Right, let's get started...
{{< /lead >}}

## Requirements

To follow this guide you will need:

 - A server running Linux that you have SSH or terminal access to
 - A domain name that you can create subdomains on

For the server, you can use a VPS from a provider such as [DigitalOcean](https://digitalocean.com/) (you can use this [referral link for $100 credit](https://m.do.co/c/3ade5a32d0e0)),
or you can use a physical device such as a Raspberry Pi. Note that if you run your server at home (which is _really_ cool!) you may need to forward some ports on your
router.

**Note:** Snikket provides a built-in web server that must be accessible on port 80. This guide assumes you are _not_ running any existing
websites on the same server. If you are running other HTTP services on the same server, refer to our [reverse proxy](../..//advanced/reverse_proxy/)
documentation after you complete step 3.

## Get Started

### Step 1: DNS

First you need to find your server's public ("external") IP address. If you are using a hosted server, this may be shown in your management dashboard.
At a pinch you can use an online service, e.g. by running `curl -4 ifconfig.co` in your terminal.

Now, add an A record for your IP address on the domain you want to run Snikket on. In the examples I'm going to use 'chat.example.com' as the domain,
and '203.0.113.123' as the IP address. This will be the primary domain for your Snikket instance.

```
# Domain           TTL  Class  Type  Target
chat.example.com.  300  IN     A     203.0.113.123
```

How to add records depends on where your DNS is hosted. Here are links to guides for a few common providers:

- [GoDaddy](https://uk.godaddy.com/help/add-an-a-record-19238)
- [Gandi](https://docs.gandi.net/en/domain_names/faq/record_types/a_record.html)
- [Namecheap](https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/319/2237/how-can-i-set-up-an-a-address-record-for-my-domain)

**Tip:** If you have an IPv6 address too, this is where you can add it - simply make another record for `chat.example.com.` with the record
type `AAAA` and put your IPv6 address as the target.

Now that you have an A record, you also need a couple more records. To avoid repeating the IP address everywhere, we'll use CNAME records,
which are just like aliases of the main domain:

```
# Domain            TTL  Class  Type   Target
groups.chat.example.com  300  IN     CNAME  chat.example.com.
share.chat.example.com   300  IN     CNAME  chat.example.com.
```

These subdomains provide group chat functionality and file-sharing respectively.

{{< panel style="info">}}
**Check that firewall!**
If you're setting up Snikket at home, or behind a router or firewall, now is a good time to check that you have all the [required ports open
](../../advanced/firewall/) or forwarded. If you're using a VPS and there is no
firewall, you're fine... onto the next step!
{{< /panel >}}

### Step 2: Docker

Docker is a handy tool for running self-contained services known as "containers". We use Docker to provide Snikket
in a clean way that works reliably across all different systems.

If you have the `docker` and `docker-compose` commands already available on your system, great! You can skip to Step 3 below. If not, continue reading.

#### docker

Getting docker up and running can vary depending on what OS you're running. Luckily Docker provides an installation guide
for a range of operating systems. Follow the guide for your system:

- [CentOS](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/centos/)
- [Debian](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/debian/)
- [Fedora](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/fedora/)
- [Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/)

#### docker-compose

The Docker folks also provide a handy tool called `docker-compose` which is not installed by default. We're going to use it
as an easy way to launch and configure Snikket.

As per the [installation instructions](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) (see the 'Linux' tab there), install
`docker-compose` with the following commands:

```bash
sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.25.3/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
sudo chmod a+x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

### Step 3: Prepare for Snikket!

This is exciting, we're so close!

Create a configuration directory and switch to it:

```bash
mkdir /etc/snikket
cd /etc/snikket
```

And then download our `docker-compose.yml` file:

```bash
curl -o docker-compose.yml https://snikket.org/service/resources/docker-compose.beta.yml
```

Now create another file called `snikket.conf` in the same directory, using a text editor (such as nano, or vim).

This file is where your configuration goes. There are just a couple of options you need:

```bash
# The primary domain of your Snikket instance
SNIKKET_DOMAIN=chat.example.com

# An email address where the admin can be contacted
# (also used to register your Let's Encrypt account to obtain certificates)
SNIKKET_ADMIN_EMAIL=you@example.com
```

Change the values to match your setup, save the file, and exit.

{{< panel style="info">}}
**Do you need to reverse proxy?**

Earlier we mentioned that Snikket needs access to the HTTP+HTTPS ports on the server. If you already
have websites or other web services on the server where you are installing Snikket, **now is
the time to configure your reverse proxy** to share web traffic with your Snikket instance.
Luckily we have you covered with our little [reverse proxy guide](../../advanced/reverse_proxy/),
which includes example configuration for a range of web servers and proxy software.

When you're done, come back here and continue with the final launch step!
{{< /panel >}}

### Step 4: Launch

Here we go! Run:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

The first time you run this command docker will download Snikket. In a moment it should complete,
and Snikket should be running and accessible via the web (e.g. `http://chat.example.com/`). As
soon as it has created certificates, it will redirect to HTTPS and show you a login page.

Now to set up your first account. To create yourself an admin account, run the following command:

```bash
docker exec snikket create-invite --admin --group default
```

Follow the link to open the invitation, and follow the instructions get signed in.

You can create as many links as you want and share them with people. Each link can
only be used once. Don't forget to drop the `--admin` part to create normal user accounts!

Once you've created your admin account, you can also log in to the web management portal
online by visiting `https://chat.example.com/` in your browser (obviously put your own
domain in there!).

{{< panel style="success" >}}
That's it! How did it go? Let us know at feedback@snikket.org. Also if you want to support
the project, consider a small [donation](/donate/) to help keep us working on it!
{{< /panel >}}

Commit message:

docs: Update quick-start guide for libseccomp2 warning on buster

docs/setup/quickstart.md, after:

---
title: "Snikket quick-start guide"
subtitle: "How to set up a self-hosted Snikket instance"
linktitle: "Quick-start"
description: "This guide will help you set up your self-hosted Snikket instance."
date: 2022-01-25T12:32:02Z
weight: 10
---

{{< lead >}}
Hi, welcome! In this guide we will help you set up your own instance of [Snikket](/service/). Once it is set up,
you will be able to invite others to join you using the [Snikket app](/app/) and chat over your own
private messaging server!
Right, let's get started...
{{< /lead >}}

## Requirements

To follow this guide you will need:

 - A server running Linux that you have SSH or terminal access to
 - A domain name that you can create subdomains on

For the server, you can use a VPS from a provider such as [DigitalOcean](https://digitalocean.com/) (you can use this [referral link for $100 credit](https://m.do.co/c/3ade5a32d0e0)),
or you can use a physical device such as a Raspberry Pi. Note that if you run your server at home (which is _really_ cool!) you may need to forward some ports on your
router.

**Note:** Snikket provides a built-in web server that must be accessible on port 80. This guide assumes you are _not_ running any existing
websites on the same server. If you are running other HTTP services on the same server, refer to our [reverse proxy](../..//advanced/reverse_proxy/)
documentation after you complete step 3.

## Get Started

### Step 1: DNS

First you need to find your server's public ("external") IP address. If you are using a hosted server, this may be shown in your management dashboard.
At a pinch you can use an online service, e.g. by running `curl -4 ifconfig.co` in your terminal.

Now, add an A record for your IP address on the domain you want to run Snikket on. In the examples I'm going to use 'chat.example.com' as the domain,
and '203.0.113.123' as the IP address. This will be the primary domain for your Snikket instance.

```
# Domain           TTL  Class  Type  Target
chat.example.com.  300  IN     A     203.0.113.123
```

How to add records depends on where your DNS is hosted. Here are links to guides for a few common providers:

- [GoDaddy](https://uk.godaddy.com/help/add-an-a-record-19238)
- [Gandi](https://docs.gandi.net/en/domain_names/faq/record_types/a_record.html)
- [Namecheap](https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/319/2237/how-can-i-set-up-an-a-address-record-for-my-domain)

**Tip:** If you have an IPv6 address too, this is where you can add it - simply make another record for `chat.example.com.` with the record
type `AAAA` and put your IPv6 address as the target.

Now that you have an A record, you also need a couple more records. To avoid repeating the IP address everywhere, we'll use CNAME records,
which are just like aliases of the main domain:

```
# Domain            TTL  Class  Type   Target
groups.chat.example.com  300  IN     CNAME  chat.example.com.
share.chat.example.com   300  IN     CNAME  chat.example.com.
```

These subdomains provide group chat functionality and file-sharing respectively.

{{< panel style="info">}}
**Check that firewall!**
If you're setting up Snikket at home, or behind a router or firewall, now is a good time to check that you have all the [required ports open
](../../advanced/firewall/) or forwarded. If you're using a VPS and there is no
firewall, you're fine... onto the next step!
{{< /panel >}}

### Step 2: Docker

Docker is a handy tool for running self-contained services known as "containers". We use Docker to provide Snikket
in a clean way that works reliably across all different systems.

If you have the `docker` and `docker-compose` commands already available on your system, great! You can skip to Step 3 below. If not, continue reading.

#### docker

Getting docker up and running can vary depending on what OS you're running. Luckily Docker provides an installation guide
for a range of operating systems. Follow the guide for your system:

- [CentOS](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/centos/)
- [Debian](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/debian/)
- [Fedora](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/fedora/)
- [Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/)

{{< panel style="warning" >}}
**Warning for Debian 10 (or Raspbian 10) ("buster") Raspberry Pi and other ARM devices**

There is a compatibility issue with the version of a package supplied with your OS that
affects newer Docker images, including Snikket. Before proceeding with the setup, consult
[the advice in our troubleshooting guide](../troubleshooting/#problems-on-debianraspbian-10-buster-on-raspberry-pi-or-arm-devices)
so you can avoid any problems.
{{< /panel >}}

#### docker-compose

The Docker folks also provide a handy tool called `docker-compose` which is not installed by default. We're going to use it
as an easy way to launch and configure Snikket.

As per the [installation instructions](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) (see the 'Linux' tab there), install
`docker-compose` with the following commands:

```bash
sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.25.3/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
sudo chmod a+x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

### Step 3: Prepare for Snikket!

This is exciting, we're so close!

Create a configuration directory and switch to it:

```bash
mkdir /etc/snikket
cd /etc/snikket
```

And then download our `docker-compose.yml` file:

```bash
curl -o docker-compose.yml https://snikket.org/service/resources/docker-compose.beta.yml
```

Now create another file called `snikket.conf` in the same directory, using a text editor (such as nano, or vim).

This file is where your configuration goes. There are just a couple of options you need:

```bash
# The primary domain of your Snikket instance
SNIKKET_DOMAIN=chat.example.com

# An email address where the admin can be contacted
# (also used to register your Let's Encrypt account to obtain certificates)
SNIKKET_ADMIN_EMAIL=you@example.com
```

Change the values to match your setup, save the file, and exit.

{{< panel style="info">}}
**Do you need to reverse proxy?**

Earlier we mentioned that Snikket needs access to the HTTP+HTTPS ports on the server. If you already
have websites or other web services on the server where you are installing Snikket, **now is
the time to configure your reverse proxy** to share web traffic with your Snikket instance.
Luckily we have you covered with our little [reverse proxy guide](../../advanced/reverse_proxy/),
which includes example configuration for a range of web servers and proxy software.

When you're done, come back here and continue with the final launch step!
{{< /panel >}}

### Step 4: Launch

Here we go! Run:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

The first time you run this command docker will download Snikket. In a moment it should complete,
and Snikket should be running and accessible via the web (e.g. `http://chat.example.com/`). As
soon as it has created certificates, it will redirect to HTTPS and show you a login page.

Now to set up your first account. To create yourself an admin account, run the following command:

```bash
docker exec snikket create-invite --admin --group default
```

Follow the link to open the invitation, and follow the instructions get signed in.

You can create as many links as you want and share them with people. Each link can
only be used once. Don't forget to drop the `--admin` part to create normal user accounts!

Once you've created your admin account, you can also log in to the web management portal
online by visiting `https://chat.example.com/` in your browser (obviously put your own
domain in there!).

{{< panel style="success" >}}
That's it! How did it go? Let us know at feedback@snikket.org. Also if you want to support
the project, consider a small [donation](/donate/) to help keep us working on it!
{{< /panel >}}
